beseech	to beg, plead, implore	The servant wants to beseech the king for food to feed his starving family.
fluster	to make nervous, embarrassed, or confused	There's nothing you can do or say to fluster Frank.
enamored	fond of; feeling love towards	It is not difficult to see why Edward is enamored of her.
ineluctable	certain, inevitable	After being anxious, angry, and sometimes morose, he accepts the coming ineluctable defeat with serenity.
invidious	offensive, hateful; tending to cause bitterness and resentment	I was shocked to learn my best friend was spreading invidious rumors about me.
plangent	pounding, thundering, resounding	There was the plangent and echoing sound of sea waves.
incumbent	one who holds a specific office at the time spoken of	He defeated the incumbent governor by a large plurality.
nugatory	of no value or importance	The observation is nugatory and pointless.
contentious	quarrelsome, inclined to argue	The socioeconomic plan had been the subject of the contentious debate.
denouement	an outcome or solution; the unraveling of a plot	The film's denouement was unsatisfying and ambiguous.
predilection	preference	I have a predilection for Asian food.
affinity	an attraction to	He has an affinity for the music of Berlioz.
sanguine	cheerful; optimistic	She is sanguine about prospects for the global economy.
choleric	easily angered	The man is choleric, angry, and self-important.
physiognomy	facial features	Friends began to notice a change in his physiognomy after he hears the terrible news.
temperament	a person's or animal's nature, especially as it permanently affects their behavior	She had an artistic temperament, so no wonder why she thinks like an artist.
humor	a mood or state of mind	Her good humor vanished when she heard that terrible news.
augury	a sign of what will happen in the future; an omen	They heard the crow sound as an augury of death.
cosmopolitan	including or containing people from many different countries	I have never seen a diverse place as this city, so no wonder it is called the cosmopolitan metropolis.
intransigent	unwilling to change one's view	Her father had tried persuasion, but she was intransigent and refused to listen.
mercenary	primarily concerned with making money, potentially at the expense of ethics	A mercenary Wall St broker.
insular	ingorant of, or uninterested in outside cultures and ideas	Stubbornly insular farming people.
capricious	sudden changes of mood, or behavior	Our livelihood hinges on a capricious boss. It's terrible.
clamorous	loud and confused noise	A jostling, clamorous mob.
numinous	having a strong religions or spiritual quality	The strange numinous beauty of this ancient landmark.
empirical	verifiable by observation, not just based on theory	There is empirical evidene to support their arugment.
sonorous	imposingly deep and full	He read aloud with a sonorous voice.
dearth	a scarcity, a lack of something	There is a dearth of evidence, so we deemed it worthless.
ambiguous	open to more than one interpretation	Confounding variables make the stat ambiguous that people can interpret it differently.
gainsay	deny, contradict	They were so persuasive that it's hard to gainsay their conclusion.
sterling	excellent or valuable	Given their sterling reputation, it's not in our favor to challenge them.
prescient	having or showing knowledge of future events	It is a prescient warning about next year global climate situation.
proprietary	relating to an owner or ownership	The company has a proprietary rights to the property.
didactic	having educational purposes	The didactic novel taught students how to be kind to neighbors as ourselves.
perpetuate	keep alive, make something continue indefinitely	The law was made to perpetuate the interests of the ruling class. it's hard to change the system.
feeble	weak, frail	My legs are very feeble after the flu.
turbulent	characterized by conflicts and disorder	The country's turbulent 20 years has come to an end. It's a day to celebrate.
augment	make greater by adding to it; increase	He wants to augment his summer income by painting houses when he's not doing his day job.
repudiate	refuse to accept or be associated with	She will try to repudiate any policies associated with previous party leaders.
brook	tolerate or allow	I would not brook any gossip towards my best friend.
wont	in the habit of doing something	I was wont to arise at 5:30 every morning.
fecund	fertile	As an artist, she gets most of her inspiration from nature; her daily walks in the woods are a fecund source of ideas.
verisimilitude	the apperance of being true or real	The detail gives the novel a lot of verisimilitude and realism.
irascible	having or showing tendency to be easily angered	You don't want to mess with the irascible professor.
exasperation	a feeling of intense irratation or arrogance	She rolled her eyes in exasperation when she hears the question about a foundational concept the student should have known 5 weeks ago.
decry	publicly denounce	The least a government can do is to decry human rights abuses
condone	accept or allow something to continue	The college cannot condone any behavior that involves illicit drugs.
explicable	able to be accounted for or understood	The revolutionzing plan he proposed was not really explicable so we didn't really consider it.
loath	reluctant; unwilling	I was loath to leave but I had to.
censure	the expression of formal disapproval	The celebrity has to consider the possible censure she might get if she comes out of the closet.
supplant	supersede and replace something or someone	Another discovery could supplant the original finding.
sift	examine something thoroughly so as to isolate that which is most important or useful	Until we sift the evidence ourselves, we can't comment objectively.
neophyte	a person who is new to a subject, skill, or belief	The four-day beginner cooking class is perfect for me, a neophyte who just wants to learn the basics.
zealot	a person who is fanatical and uncompromising in pursuit of their religious, political, or other ideals	The art patron and collector Peggy Guggenheim was a zealot as she was only for the strangest, the most surprising, the most satisfying, the best, and the unique.
motley	incongruously varied in appearance or character; disparate	There is a motley assortment of tools designed to safeguard researchers against their own biases.
monolithic	formed of a single entity, indivisible and uniform	We want to reject any move toward a monolithic European superstate. The power of balance would be broken.
nepotism	the practice among those with power or influence of favoring relatives or friends, especially by giving them jobs	He promised an end to corruption and nepotism by holding a public vote on who's getting chosen.
partisanship	a strong adherence, dedication, or loyalty to a political party	Extreme partisanship is generally regarded as detrimental to the functioning of democratic governments, because people end up blindly support one side.
vacillation	the inability to decide between different opinions or actions; indecisive	People don't want a leader with vacillation but a decisive one.
futile	incapable of producing any useful result; pointless	It was a futile attempt to change jobs. No one is willing to hire in this climate.
flippant	lacking respect or seriousness	She was infuriated by his careless, flippant and frivolous attitude.
discursive	digressing from subject to subject	A lot of students often write dull, secondhand, discursive prose, so teachers want to teach them the power of brevity and prcise writing.
tendentious	expressing or intending to promote a particular cause or point of view, especially a controversial one	The youtuber is tendentious when talking about the matter between Russia and Ukraine
alluring	powerfully and mysteriously attractive or fascinating; seductive	The town offers alluring shops and restaurants. I don't know why I keep wanting to come back to it.
invenerate	having a particular habit, activity, or interest that is long-established and unlikely to change	He was an invenerate gambler but somehow his new girlfriend changed him. He now has a full-time job that is not gambling.
exigency	an urgent need or demand	Women worked long hours when the exigency to fill the jobs when the men went to war arose.
hodgepodge	a confused mixture	Rob's living room was a hodgepodge of modern furniture and antiques.
fractious	irritable and quarrelsome	They are so fractious as they fight and squabble over everything.
sagacious	having or showing keen mental discernment and good judgment	They were sagacious enough to avoid any outright confrontation.
affable	friendly, good-natured, or easy to talk to	He is an affable and agreeable companion. I would love to hangout with him more.
eroded	gradually wearing away	The cliffs have been eroded by the sea. The erosion is unstoppable.
chivalrous	courteous and gallant, especially toward women	Shall I be chivalrous and offer you my coat.
impetuous	acting or done quickly and without thought or care	Her friend was headstrong and impetuous as he never thinks twice.
boorish	rough and bad-mannered	The irascible teacher will not condone any boorish behaviors.
circumspect	risk-averse, unwilling to take risks	A circumspect trader would not buy Auzuki after the pump; it's not a safe play.
forbear	politely or patiently restrain an impulse to do something; refrain	He is so modest that he even decided to forbear to include his own work.
jettison	abandon or discard	Individuals are often forced to jettison certain attitudes and behaviors.
contrived	deliberately created rather than arising naturally or spontaneously	The ending of the novel is too contrived and too forced.
adversarial	involving or characterized by conflict or opposition	Miller reminded his clients that labor relationship are inherently adversarial as the interests of business owners are diametrically opposed to those of employees.
untenable	(especially of a postion or view) not able to be maintained or defended against attack or objection	This argument is clearly untenable and thus should be dropped.
efficacious	successful in producing a desired or intended result; effective	The vaccine has proved both efficacious and safe
dichotomy	a division or contrast between two things that are or are represented as being opposed or entirely different	Although progressive and reactionary populist movements seem like dichotomy they actually share certain features.
adduce	cite as evidence	The researcher hopes to adduce at least 5 results to explain the situation.
trifling	unimportant or trivial	Although the introduction of the new fish theorectially would have detrimental effects on other fish, it turns out to be pretty trifling and trivial.
conspicuous	standing out so as to be clearly visible	The contribution he showed was conspicuous although he didn't have to speak much.
precarious	not securely held or in position; dangerously likely to fall or collapse, or uncertain, dependent on chance	He made a precarious living as a painter.
incommensurable	not able to be judged by the same standard as something	Systems of belief prevalent during different periods in history are incommensurable and therefore cannot be understood except in their own term.
acrimony	bitterness or ill feeling	The debate has turned acrimony and finger-pointing. Time to end this.
dissension	disagreement that leads to discord	These issues caused bitter dissension in the party.
comity	courtesy and considerate behavior toward others	The company suffers from an almost total lack of comity as even the most innocuous communications between departments led to devolve into acrimony.
mordant	(a thought) having or showing a sharp or critical quality; biting	He joined the Extreme Left, and his energy and mordant eloquence speedily made him the leader of the Radical section.
extrapolate	extend the application of a method/conclusion to an unknown situation in another field or to predict the future	One way to predict the effects of global climate change on an ecosystem is to extrapolate current trend in global change factors into the future.
insurmountable	too great to be overcome	The problem has become insurmountable over time that we should just give up.
oust	drive out or expel (someone) from a position or place	He would need to oust a long-term incumbent by at least 5000 votes.
belie	fail to give a true notion or impression of (something); disguise or contradict	The useful proteins whose simple names belie their importance and the specificity of their roles in the thinning and clotting of blood.
obviate	remove (a need or difficulty)	The Venetian blinds obviate the need for curtains
accentuate	make more noticeable or prominent	His good manners accentuate how educated he is.
undue	unwarranted or inappropriate because excessive or disproportionate	He was giving undue attention to the conversation so I told him to focus on the driving.
scant	barely sufficient or adequate	Don't work for companies with scant regard for the safety of future generations.
dwindle	diminish gradually in size, amount, or strength	Traffic is starting to dwindle down, it's time to go out.
abbreviate	shorten the duration of; cut short	I decided to abbreviate my stay in Cambridge.
felicitous	well-chosen or suited/pleasing and fortunate	The view was the room's only felicitous feature.
bolster	support or strengthen; prop up	The improvement in grades is starting to bolster his confidence.
corroborate	confirm or give support to (a statement, theory, or finding)	The witness was there to corroborate the boy's account of the attack.
outstrip	exceed	The supply is going to far outstrip the demand.
erudite	having or showing great knowledge or learning	Ken could turn any conversation into an erudite discussion.
precipitate	cause (an event or situation, typically one that is bad or undesirable) to happen suddenly, unexpectedly, or prematurely	If the president got involved in the scandal last night, it would precipitate a political crisis.
judicious	having, showing, or done with good judgment or sense	We should listen to the judicious opinion of uncle Iroh.
acrimonious	angry and bitter	A simple request for a day off turns an acrimonious dispute about wages.
onerous	involving an amount of effort and difficulty that is oppressively burdensome	He found his duties increasingly onerous that he decided to quit before it became unbearable.
opaque	not able to be seen through; not transparent	The windows were opaque with steam.
magisterial	having or showing great authority	She talked with the magisterial authority of the head of the family.
circumvent	find a way around (an obstacle)/overcome (a problem or difficulty), typically in a clever and surreptitious way	I found it quite easy to circumvent security.
draconian	excessively harsh and severe	The Nazis destroyed the independence of the press by a series of draconian laws.
rapacious	aggressively greedy or grasping	However cruel and rapacious the Vikings may have been, the work of disorder and ruin was not all theirs.
adjunct	a thing added to something else as a supplementary rather than an essential part	Computer technology is an adjunct to learning. You don't need it as people used to learn a lot without it. But it's nice to have.
malady	a disease or ailment	The incurable malady has caused thousands of deaths.
assuage	make (an unpleasant feeling) less intense	The annoucement hopefully can assuage the fears of most holders.
profess	to affirm openly; declare or claim, sometimes when this is not the case	I don't profess to be a believer, but I'd like to think I have an open mind.
antediluvian	ridiculously old-fashioned	The way they taught the AI class is antediluvian as it is 20 years behind the cutting edge techonology being used in the industry.
chauvinistic	feeling or displaying aggressive or exaggerated patriotism	Don't be chauvinistic and instead be open-minded and neutral about international problems.
flighty	fickle and irresponsible	You may be seen as too flighty to hold an important responsibility for years.
patronizing	apparently kind or helpful but betraying a feeling of superiority; condescending	The tutor seemingly is helpful but super patronizing and low key condescending.
discern	perceive or recognize (something)	We must discern between the truth and lies.
envisaged	contemplated or conceived of as a possibility or a desirable future event	The Rome Treaty envisaged free movement across frontiers.
perfidious	deceitful and untrustworthy	She described the new criminal bill as a perfidious attack on democracy.
loquacious	tending to talk a great deal; talkative	The interviewer was blown away by his loquacious personality.
haphazard	lacking any obvious principle of organization	The kitchen drawers contained a haphazard collection of silver souvenir spoons, forks, knives, ... pretty any possible things, that don't go together.
burlesque	a parody, an absurd or comically exaggerated imitation of something, especially in a literary or dramatic work	The funniest burlesque of opera.
pastiche	an artistic work consisting of a medley of pieces taken from various sources/an artistic work in a style that imitates that of another work, artist, or period	The film was a pastiche as its elements were assembled more or less haphazardly from a dozen of different sources.
esoteric	intended for or likely to be understood by only a small number of people with a specialized knowledge or interest	Some words are really too esoteric for 99 percent of the population.
surreptitious	kept secret, especially because it would not be approved of	They carried on a surreptitious affair.
vexatious	causing or tending to cause annoyance, frustration, or worry	That's such a vexatious question: it needs an answer but it's not easy.
apropos	very appropriate to a particular situation	The example is very apropos as nothing else would be better suited here.
churlish	rude in a mean-spirited and surly way	It seems churlish to complain even though the waiter meant no bad intentions.
cagey	reluctant to give information owing to caution or suspicion	I'm cagey to tell him what I really think about the situation as I don't fully trust the guy.
pugnacious	eager or quick to argue, quarrel, or fight	Lawyers sometimes are not the most pugnacious as they only argue when it's necessary.
complacent	showing smug or uncritical satisfaction with oneself or one's achievements	When I lived far away from my strict parents, I slowly became more complacent and okay with being mediocre.
truculent	eager or quick to argue or fight; aggressively defiant and resistant	He became very truculent and started arguing with me angrily.
arduous	involving or requiring strenuous effort; difficult and tiring	An arduous and tiring journey has come to a rewarding end.
stave-off	avert or delay something bad or dangerous	A reassuring presence can stave-off a panic attack.
forestall	prevent or obstruct (an anticipated event or action) by taking action ahead of time	Vitamins may forestall many diseases that comes with aging.
illusory	based on illusion; not real	She knew the safety of her room was illusory so she needed to do something.
evanescent	soon passing out of sight, memory, or existence; quickly fading or disappearing	Talk is evanescent while writing leaves footprints.
punctilious	showing great attention to detail or correct behavior	I'm always very punctilious in providing every amenity for his guests that I forget to actually talk to them.
prosaic	commonplace; unromantic/having the style or diction of prose; lacking poetic beauty	The masses were too preoccupied by prosaic day-to-day concerns
arcane	understood by few; mysterious or secret	Modern math and its arcane notations are mysterious to many.
quixotic	exceedingly idealistic; unrealistic and impractical	This is a vast, exciting, and perhaps quixotic project.
skullduggery	trickery intended to take advantage of you in some way	He is serving a prison sentence for financial skullduggery that targetted at least 100 people.
indolence	avoidance of activity or exertion; laziness	My indolence is defintely the reason why I'm unemployed right now.
incivility	rude or unsociable speech or behavior	The strict professor definitely does not condone any incivility from anyone. No exceptions.
lethargy	a lack of energy and enthusiasm	Life is a marathon. As long as you can minimize the lethargy periods, you can always outpace other people.
fervor	intense and passionate feeling	He talks about NFTs with so much fervor that people think he's crazy to believe in multi-millions dollars pictures of apes that much.
conciliatory	intended or likely to overcome animosity or hostility	Perhaps you should adopt a more conciliatory approach.
beguiled	charmed or enchanted, sometimes in a deceptive way	Every prominent American artist has been beguiled by Maine.
buoyed	caused to become cheerful or confident	The party was buoyed by the news that Elon Musk is going to make an apperance.
insouciance	casual lack of concern; indifference; the cheerful feeling you have when nothing is troubling you	Neil has an insouciance to not care about every random things.
alacrity	brisk and cheerful readiness	They accepted the job offer with alacrity as it was so appealing.
pedestrian	lacking inspiration or excitement; dull	His speech was long, pedestrian and put everyone to sleep.
knotty	extremely difficult or intricate	Philosophers have to deal with very knotty ethical questions.
vapid	offering nothing that is stimulating or challenging	Math classes in high school cannot be more vapid and boring.
inaccessible	difficult to understand or appreciate	A lot of phisophical writing are embedded in a dense English translation of a dense German original that may make many of them inaccessible to most readers.
confined	restricted in area or volume; cramped	This hotel room is so confined that I need to get out of here as soon as possible.
animosity	strong hostility	After forcing Forgotten Vayne three games in a row, I felt no animosity towards my critics. I agreed with them that it cannot be any more degenerate than that.
